.TH "fel" "1" "2024.1.10 " "January 2024" "lrslib 7.3"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.\" http://bugs.debian.org/507673
.\" http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/groff/2009-02/msg00013.html
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.SS "Name"
fel  -  Project an H-representation or V-representation onto a subset
of columns.
.SS "Synopsis"
.HP \w'\fBfel\fR\ [input-file] [output-file]\ 'u
\fBfel\fR\ \fI[input-file] [output-file]\fR      
.HP \w'\fBmpirun\fR\ \fR\fBmplrs\fR\ [input-file] [output-file]\ 'u
\fBmpirun\fR\ -np [procs] \fBmplrs -fel\fR\ \fI[input-file] [output-file] [option...]\fR
.SS "Description"
\fBfel\fR is an alias of \fRlrs\fR which can also perform these functions via
the \fBeliminate\fR and \fBproject\fR options.
.PP
\fIH-representation\fR.
.br
The input is projected onto a given set of columns using 
Fourier-Motzkin elimination. An H-representation is output after each
iteration.
\fBmplrs -fel\fR is a fully parallel version that performs one iteration only,
see \fBmplrs(1)\fR.
.br
\fIV-representation\fR.
.br
The specified columns are extracted and redundant rows are removed.
The output can be
can be piped directly into \fBlrs\fR.
Not implemented in \fBmplrs\fR.

.SS "Options"
.PP
These options are placed
\fBafter\fR
the end statement.
.PP
\fBeliminate  k   i_1 i_2 ... i_k  \fR          (new in v7.2)
.br
\fI(H-representation)\fR Eliminates k variables in an H-representation corresponding to cols i_1 .. i_k
by projection onto the remaining variables
using the Fourier-Motzkin method.
Variables are eliminated in the order given and redundancy is removed after each iteration.
.br
\fI(V-representation)\fR Delete the k given columns from the input matrix and remove
redundancies (cf. \fBextract\fR where redundancies are not removed).
.br
Column indices are between 1 and n-1 and column zero cannot be eliminated.
The output is a valid lrs input file.

.PP
\fBproject  k   i_1 i_2 ... i_k  \fR          (new in v7.2)
.br
\fI(H-representation)\fR Project the polyhedron onto the k variables corresponding to cols i_1 .. i_k
using the Fourier-Motzkin method. Column  indices are between 1 and n-1 and column
zero is automatically retained.
Variables not contained in the list are eliminated using a heuristic
which chooses the column which minimizes the product of the number of positive and negative entries.
Redundancy is removed after each iteration using linear programming.
.br
\fI(V-representation)\fR Extract the k given columns from the input matrix and remove
redundancies. Column  indices are between 1 and n-1 and column
zero is automatically extracted (cf. \fBextract\fR where redundancies are not removed).
.br
The output as a valid lrs input file.
.PP
See also \fBextract\fR in \fBlrs(1)\fR.

\fBverbose\fR
.PP
For an H-representation give, for each iteration,
statistics on how many new inequaties
were created and how many of these were redundant. See \fBExample\fR below.

.SS "Example"
(1) Project onto columns 1 and 3 in an H-representation

 % cat cube.ine
 cube.ine
 H-representation
 begin
 6 4 rational
 1  1  0  0
 1  0  1  0
 1  0  0  1
 1 -1  0  0
 1  0  0 -1
 1  0 -1  0
 end
 project 2 1 3
 verbose

 % fel cube.ine
 fel:lrslib_v.7.3_2024.1.10(64bit,lrslong.h,hybrid_arithmetic)
 *Input taken from  cube.ine
 cube
 
 *switching to fel mode
 *project 2  1 3 
 *after removing column 2
 *checking for redundant rows only
 H-representation
 begin
 4 3 rational
  0  1  0 
  1 -1  0 
  1  0 -1 
 -1  0  1 
 end
 *number of       number after    number of       remaining      column  
 *inequalties     removing col    redundancies     rows          removed 
 *         7              6             2             4             2    
 --------------------------------------------------------------------

 
 *original vars remaining: 1 3

(2) Eliminate columns 1,2,3 from a V-representation 

 % cat cp4.ext
 V-representation
 begin
 8 7 rational
  1  0  0  0  0  0  0 
  1  0  1  1  1  1  0 
  1  1  1  0  0  1  1 
  1  1  0  0  1  1  0 
  1  0  0  1  0  1  1 
  1  1  1  1  0  0  0 
  1  0  1  0  1  0  1 
  1  1  0  1  1  0  1 
 end
 eliminate 3 1 2 3 
 
 % lrs cp4.ext
 lrs:lrslib_v.7.3_2024.1.12(64bit,lrslong.h,hybrid_arithmetic)
 *Input taken from  cp4.ext
 cp4
 
 *switching to fel mode
 *eliminate 3  1 2 3 
 *checking for redundant rows only
 V-representation
 begin
 4 4 rational
  1  1  1  0 
  1  0  1  1 
  1  0  0  0 
  1  1  0  1 
 end
 *columns retained: 0 4 5 6

.SS "Notes"
.IP " 1." 4
FAQ page
.RS 4
\%https://inf.ethz.ch/personal/fukudak/polyfaq/polyfaq.html
.RE
.IP "2." 4
User's guide for lrslib
.RS 4
\%http://cgm.cs.mcgill.ca/%7Eavis/C/lrslib/USERGUIDE.html
.RE
.SS Author
David Avis <avis at cs dot mcgill dot ca >
.SS "See also"
.BR lrs (1),
.BR mplrs (1),
.BR lrslib (5),
